# Comparison: MySQL on VM vs. Managed MySQL on Cloud SQL
I would use Managed MySQL on Cloud SQL over VM. The Managed MySQL was much more easier to create an instance and add firewall ports. There was less steps than the VM. However it did take a longer time to load the creation of the instance. After creating the instances, VM took longer as there was more steps to the process where you had to go into the SSH multiple times to update the OS system, instal mysql and nano. You also had to fo ingto the nano to change the bind address manually to 0.0.0.0/0. Then it required a restart of the system before u could log in and add in the data. Howwever for me, it was easier to set up afterwards. While doing the Managed MySQL, I ran into problems running the python code. I think the password I created was confusing the terminal. Since google shell had requirements to what the password had to include. Although that is good for safety reasons, it was very annoying for me to deal with. For a small student app, I would choose Managed Cloud SQL as it is more beginner friendly and helps students create the instance and database easily without much inputs needed. It is also more low cost as mine was $0.01 compared to $13. For a department analytics, I think VM as it can be a practical and cost-effective choice, depending on the department’s goals, technical capacity, and the sensitivity of the data. A. A VM gives the team full control over everything like the operating system. This can be helpful if the department needs flexibility or wants to adjust performance for reports and dashboards. For a  HIPAA-aligned workload,I think Managed Cloud SQL as it is also easy for them to deploy and user friendly. The password is also more secured with the requirements needed. Even assuming a VM could be secured manually, the complexity and risk are significantly higher. Managed database services provide integrated security controls and has audit logs. 